README.md, before:

# Neolink

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/privatecoder/neolink/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/privatecoder/neolink)

Neolink is a small program that acts as a proxy between Reolink IP cameras and
normal RTSP clients.
Certain cameras, such as the Reolink B800, do not implement ONVIF or RTSP, but
instead use a proprietary "Baichuan" protocol only compatible with their apps
and NVRs (any camera that uses "port 9000" will likely be using this protocol).
Neolink allows you to use NVR software such as Shinobi or Blue Iris to receive
video from these cameras instead.
The Reolink NVR is not required, and the cameras are unmodified.
Your NVR software connects to Neolink, which forwards the video stream from the
camera.

The Neolink project is not affiliated with Reolink in any way; everything it
does has been reverse engineered.

## This Fork

This fork is an extension of
[QuantumEntangledAndy's](https://github.com/QuantumEntangledAndy/neolink) with some attempted improvements for stability.


## Installation

Download from the
[release page](https://github.com/privatecoder/neolink/releases)

## Config/Usage

### RTSP

To use `neolink` you need a config file.

There's a more complete example
[here](https://github.com/QuantumEntangledAndy/neolink/blob/master/sample_config.toml),
but the following should work as a minimal example.

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera02"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "BCDEF0123456789A"
address = "192.168.1.10"
```

### MQTT

To use mqtt you will need to adjust your config file as such:

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[mqtt]
broker_addr = "127.0.0.1" # Address of the mqtt server
port = 1883 # mqtt servers port
credentials = ["username", "password"] # mqtt server login details

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
```

Then to start the mqtt+rtsp connection run the following:

```bash
./neolink mqtt-rtsp --config=neolink.toml
```

OR for only mqtt

```bash
./neolink mqtt --config=neolink.toml
```

Neolink will publish these messages:

Messages that are prefixed with `neolink/`

- `/status` Tracks the connection of neolink, `connected` for ready `offline`
  for not ready this is a LastWill message
- `/config` The configuration file used to start neolink, you can publish to
  this to **temporarily** alter the live configuration
- `/config/status` If you publish to `/config` then any errors from your
  publish config will show here, or `Ok(())` if no errors and finished loading

Messages that are prefixed with `neolink/{CAMERANAME}`

Control messages:

- `/control/led [on|off]` Turns status LED on/off
- `/control/ir [on|off|auto]` Turn IR lights on/off or automatically via light
  detection
- `/control/reboot` Reboot the camera
- `/control/ptz [up|down|left|right|in|out] (amount)` Control the PTZ
  movements, amount defaults to 32.0
- `/control/ptz/preset [id]` Move the camera to a PTZ preset
- `/control/ptz/assign [id] [name]` Set the current PTZ position to a preset ID
  and name
- `/control/zoom (amount)` Zoom the camera to the specified amount. Example: 1.0
  for normal and 3.5 for 3.5x zoom factor. This only works on cameras that support
  zoom
- `/control/pir [on|off]`
- `/control/floodlight [on|off]` Turns floodlight (if equipped) on/off
- `/control/floodlight_tasks [on|off]` Turns floodlight (if equipped) tasks on/off
  This is the automatic tasks such as on motion and night triggers
- `/control/wakeup (mins)` For cameras that are using `idle_disconnect` this will
  force a wakeup for at least the given minutes
- `/control/siren on` Signal the siren, the message is always "on" as there is no
  "off" signal for the siren

Status Messages:

- `/status disconnected` Sent when the camera goes offline
- `/status/battery` Sent in reply to a `/query/battery` an XML encoded version
  of the battery status
- `/status/battery_level` A simple % value of current battery level, only
  published when `enable_battery` is true in the config
- `/status/pir` Sent in reply to a `/query/pir` an XML encoded version of the
  pir status
- `/status/motion` Contains the motion detection alarm status. `on` for motion
  and `off` for still, only published when `enable_moton` is true in the config
- `/status/ptz/preset` Sent in reply to a `/query/ptz/preset` an XML encoded
  version of the PTZ presets
- `/status/preview` a base64 encoded camera image updated every 2s. Not
  every camera supports the snapshot command needed for this. In such cases
  there will be no `/status/preview` message. Only published when
  `enable_preview` is true in the config
- `/status/floodlight_tasks` The current status of the floodlight tasks
  used updated every 2s by default

Query Messages:

- `/query/battery` Request that the camera reports its battery level
- `/query/pir` Request that the camera reports its pir status
- `/query/ptz/preset` Request that the camera reports its PTZ presets
- `/query/preview` Request that the camera post a base64 encoded jpeg
  of the stream to `/status/preview` now, ignoring the timer

### Controlling RTSP from MQTT

If neolink is started with `mqtt-rtsp` then the `/neolink/config` can be used
to control the RTSP

Changes made to the config by publishing to `/neolink/config` should be
reflected in the rtsp

These include changing the:

- Available users

```toml
[[users]]
  name = "me"
  pass = "mepass"
```

- Permitted users on a camera

```toml
[[cameras]]
  permitted_users = [ "me" ]
```

- Available streams

```toml
[[cameras]]
  stream = "Main"
```

Setting a value of `None` will disable the stream

- Disable the entire camera (mqtt updates and all)

```toml
[[cameras]]
  enabled = false
```

### MQTT Disable Features

Certain features like preview and motion detection may not be desired
you can disable them with the following config options.
Disabling these may help to conserve battery

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[mqtt]
broker_addr = "127.0.0.1" # Address of the mqtt server
port = 1883 # mqtt servers port
credentials = ["username", "password"] # mqtt server login details

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
[cameras.mqtt]
enable_motion = false        # motion detection
                             # (limited battery drain since it
                             # is a passive listening connection)
                             #
enable_light = false         # flood lights only available on some camera
                             # (limited battery drain since it
                             # is a passive listening connection)
                             #
enable_battery = false       # battery updates in `/status/battery_level`
                             #
enable_preview = false       # preview image in `/status/preview`
                             #
enable_floodlight = false    # preview image in `/status/floodlight_tasks`
                             #
battery_update = 2000        # Number of ms between `/status/battery_level` updates
                             #
preview_update = 2000        # Number of ms between `/status/preview` updates
                             #
floodlight_update = 2000     # Number of ms between `/status/floodlight_tasks` updates
```

#### MQTT Discovery

[MQTT Discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/mqtt/#mqtt-discovery)
is partially supported. Currently, discovery is opt-in and camera features
must be manually specified.

```toml
[cameras.mqtt]
  # <see above>
  [cameras.mqtt.discovery]
  topic = "homeassistant"
  features = ["floodlight"]
```

Available features are:

- `floodlight`: This adds a light control to home assistant
- `camera`: This adds a camera preview to home assistant. It is only updated
  every 0.5s and cannot be much more than that since it is updated over mqtt
  not over RTSP. Not every camera supports the snapshot command needed for
  this. In such cases there will be no `/status/preview` message.
- `led`: This adds a switch to chage the LED status light on/off to home
  assistant
- `ir`: This adds a selection switch to chage the IR light on/off/auto to home
  assistant
- `motion`: This adds a motion detection binary sensor to home assistant
- `reboot`: This adds a reboot button to home assistant
- `pt`: This adds a selection of buttons to control the pan and tilt of the
  camera
- `battery`: This adds a battery level sensor to home assistant
- `siren`: Adds a siren button to home assistant

### Extra Camera Settings

Listed below are extra camera settings:

```toml
[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
debug = false # Displays Debug XML messages from camera
enabled = true # Enable or Disable the camera
update_time = false # When camera connects, force the setting of the camera date/time to now. The default is false
print_format = "None"  # Type of format that logs are displayed in (None, Human, Xml). The default is None
```

- **Debug:** Will dump the various XMLs from the camera as they are recieved
and decrypted. Leave this off unless asked for it to fix an issue.

- **Enabled:** Useful if you want to remove a camera from rtsp without deleting
it from the config

- **update_time:** Used to FORCE an update on the camera time. Usually it checks
if it is needed but this
will force it regardless. (Mostly this was introduced to address a specific
ssue a user had)

- **print_format:** Used for adjusting printing of some values mostly, battery
messages

### Pause

To use the pause feature you will need to adjust your config file as such:

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
  [cameras.pause]
  on_motion = true # Should pause when no motion
  on_client = true # Should pause when no rtsp client
  timeout = 2.1 # How long to wait after motion stops before pausing
```

Then start the rtsp server as usual:

```bash
./neolink rtsp --config=neolink.toml
```

### Idle Disconnects

To really save battery we need to disconnect the camera when it is idle.

To acheieve this you can add `idle_disconnect = true` to the `[[cameras]]`
section

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
idle_disconnect = true
[cameras.pause]
  on_client = true # Should pause when no rtsp client
  timeout = 2.1 # How long to wait after motion stops before pausing
```

When `idle_disconnect = true` neolink will disconnect from the camera 30s
after it stops being used.

Neolink considers it as being used if there is an active stream running, or
if there is motion being detected or an mqtt command being run

[Because google remove the api for the push notifications we cannot
reliably use push notifications to wake up, so motion won't wake
up neolink anymore]

You can make neolink stop active streams when there are no rtsp clients using

```toml
[cameras.pause]
  on_client = true # Should pause when no rtsp client
```

Once in the disconnected state. Neolink will stay disconnected until there is a
new requested activation such as a client connecting or an mqtt command

~Neolink will also wake up on push notifications from the camera. These are usually
sent by the camera on motion or PIR alarms. To disable this you can set
`push_notifications = false` in the `[[cameras]]` config~

[Google removed the apis we were using for push notifications]

### Docker

[Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/quantumentangledandy/neolink) builds are also
provided in multiple architectures. The latest tag tracks master while each
branch gets it's own tag.

```bash
docker pull quantumentangledandy/neolink

# Add `-e "RUST_LOG=debug"` to run with debug logs
#
# --network host is only needed if you require to connect
# via local broadcasts. If you can connect via any other
# method then normal bridge mode should work fine
# and you can ommit this option. Not all OSes support
# network=host, notably macos lacks this option.
docker run --network host --volume=$PWD/config.toml:/etc/neolink.toml quantumentangledandy/neolink
```

#### Environmental Variables

There are currently 2 environmental variables available as part of the container:

- `NEO_LINK_MODE`: defaults to `"rtsp"` if not set, other options are "mqtt" or "mqtt-rtsp".
- `NEO_LINK_PORT`: defaults to `8554`, set this to your required port value.

### Image

You can write an image from the stream to disk using:

```bash
neolink image --config=config.toml --file-path=filepath CameraName
```

Where filepath is the path to save the image to and CameraName is the name of
the camera from the config to save the image from.

File is always jpeg and the extension given in filepath will be added or changed
to reflect this.

Some cameras do not support the SNAP command that is used to generate the image
on the camera. If this is the case with your camera you can try the
`--use-stream` option which will instead create a jpeg by transcoding the video
stream.

### Battery Levels

You can get the battery level and status using

```bash
neolink battery --config=config.toml CameraName
```

This will produce an xml formatted battery status on stdout for processing

### PIR

You can control pir using

```bash
neolink pir --config=config.toml CameraName [on|off]
```

This will turn the PIR on or off

### Reboot

You can reboot a camera using

```bash
neolink reboot --config=config.toml CameraName
```

### Status LED

You can control the status LED using

```bash
neolink status-light --config=config.toml CameraName [on|off]
```

### Talk

You can talk over the camera using

```bash
neolink talk --config=config.toml --adpcm-file=data.adpc\
               --sample-rate=16000 --block-size=512 CameraName
```

Where the sounds is ADPCM encoded

or

```bash
neolink talk --config=config.toml --microphone  CameraName
```

Which uses the default microphone which depends on
[gstreamer](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/autodetect/autoaudiosrc.html?gi-language=c#autoaudiosrc-page)

### PTZ

You can control the PTZ using

```bash
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName control 32 [left|right|up|down|in|out]
```

Where 32 is the speed. Not all cameras support speed

Some cameras also support preset positions

```bash
# Print the list of preset positions
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName preset
# Move the camera to preset ID 0
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName preset 0
# Save the current position as preset ID 0 with name PresetName
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName assign 0 PresetName
```

To change the zoom level use the following:

```bash
# Zoom the camera to 2.5x
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName zoom 2.5
```

With 1.0 being normal and 2.5 being 2.5x zoom

## License

Neolink is free software, released under the GNU Affero General Public License
v3.

This means that if you incorporate it into a piece of software available over
the network, you must offer that software's source code to your users.

## Donations

If you find this code helpful please consider supporting development.

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/G2G5HOYIZ)

Commit message:

connect to relay-servers on rtsp-client-connect (on-demand) test3

README.md, after:

# Neolink

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/privatecoder/neolink/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/privatecoder/neolink)

Neolink is a small program that acts as a proxy between Reolink IP cameras and
normal RTSP clients.
Certain cameras, such as the Reolink B800, do not implement ONVIF or RTSP, but
instead use a proprietary "Baichuan" protocol only compatible with their apps
and NVRs (any camera that uses "port 9000" will likely be using this protocol).
Neolink allows you to use NVR software such as Shinobi or Blue Iris to receive
video from these cameras instead.
The Reolink NVR is not required, and the cameras are unmodified.
Your NVR software connects to Neolink, which forwards the video stream from the
camera.

The Neolink project is not affiliated with Reolink in any way; everything it
does has been reverse engineered.

## This Fork

This fork is an extension of
[QuantumEntangledAndy's](https://github.com/QuantumEntangledAndy/neolink) with some attempted improvements for stability.


## Installation

Download from the
[release page](https://github.com/privatecoder/neolink/releases)

## Config/Usage

### RTSP

To use `neolink` you need a config file.

There's a more complete example
[here](https://github.com/QuantumEntangledAndy/neolink/blob/master/sample_config.toml),
but the following should work as a minimal example.

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera02"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "BCDEF0123456789A"
address = "192.168.1.10"
```

### MQTT

To use mqtt you will need to adjust your config file as such:

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[mqtt]
broker_addr = "127.0.0.1" # Address of the mqtt server
port = 1883 # mqtt servers port
credentials = ["username", "password"] # mqtt server login details

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
```

Then to start the mqtt+rtsp connection run the following:

```bash
./neolink mqtt-rtsp --config=neolink.toml
```

OR for only mqtt

```bash
./neolink mqtt --config=neolink.toml
```

Neolink will publish these messages:

Messages that are prefixed with `neolink/`

- `/status` Tracks the connection of neolink, `connected` for ready `offline`
  for not ready this is a LastWill message
- `/config` The configuration file used to start neolink, you can publish to
  this to **temporarily** alter the live configuration
- `/config/status` If you publish to `/config` then any errors from your
  publish config will show here, or `Ok(())` if no errors and finished loading

Messages that are prefixed with `neolink/{CAMERANAME}`

Control messages:

- `/control/led [on|off]` Turns status LED on/off
- `/control/ir [on|off|auto]` Turn IR lights on/off or automatically via light
  detection
- `/control/reboot` Reboot the camera
- `/control/ptz [up|down|left|right|in|out] (amount)` Control the PTZ
  movements, amount defaults to 32.0
- `/control/ptz/preset [id]` Move the camera to a PTZ preset
- `/control/ptz/assign [id] [name]` Set the current PTZ position to a preset ID
  and name
- `/control/zoom (amount)` Zoom the camera to the specified amount. Example: 1.0
  for normal and 3.5 for 3.5x zoom factor. This only works on cameras that support
  zoom
- `/control/pir [on|off]`
- `/control/floodlight [on|off]` Turns floodlight (if equipped) on/off
- `/control/floodlight_tasks [on|off]` Turns floodlight (if equipped) tasks on/off
  This is the automatic tasks such as on motion and night triggers
- `/control/wakeup (mins)` Force a camera connection for at least the given minutes
- `/control/siren on` Signal the siren, the message is always "on" as there is no
  "off" signal for the siren

Status Messages:

- `/status disconnected` Sent when the camera goes offline
- `/status/battery` Sent in reply to a `/query/battery` an XML encoded version
  of the battery status
- `/status/battery_level` A simple % value of current battery level, only
  published when `enable_battery` is true in the config
- `/status/pir` Sent in reply to a `/query/pir` an XML encoded version of the
  pir status
- `/status/motion` Contains the motion detection alarm status. `on` for motion
  and `off` for still, only published when `enable_moton` is true in the config
- `/status/ptz/preset` Sent in reply to a `/query/ptz/preset` an XML encoded
  version of the PTZ presets
- `/status/preview` a base64 encoded camera image updated every 2s. Not
  every camera supports the snapshot command needed for this. In such cases
  there will be no `/status/preview` message. Only published when
  `enable_preview` is true in the config
- `/status/floodlight_tasks` The current status of the floodlight tasks
  used updated every 2s by default

Query Messages:

- `/query/battery` Request that the camera reports its battery level
- `/query/pir` Request that the camera reports its pir status
- `/query/ptz/preset` Request that the camera reports its PTZ presets
- `/query/preview` Request that the camera post a base64 encoded jpeg
  of the stream to `/status/preview` now, ignoring the timer

### Controlling RTSP from MQTT

If neolink is started with `mqtt-rtsp` then the `/neolink/config` can be used
to control the RTSP

Changes made to the config by publishing to `/neolink/config` should be
reflected in the rtsp

These include changing the:

- Available users

```toml
[[users]]
  name = "me"
  pass = "mepass"
```

- Permitted users on a camera

```toml
[[cameras]]
  permitted_users = [ "me" ]
```

- Available streams

```toml
[[cameras]]
  stream = "Main"
```

Setting a value of `None` will disable the stream

- Disable the entire camera (mqtt updates and all)

```toml
[[cameras]]
  enabled = false
```

### MQTT Disable Features

Certain features like preview and motion detection may not be desired
you can disable them with the following config options.
Disabling these may help to conserve battery

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[mqtt]
broker_addr = "127.0.0.1" # Address of the mqtt server
port = 1883 # mqtt servers port
credentials = ["username", "password"] # mqtt server login details

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
[cameras.mqtt]
enable_motion = false        # motion detection
                             # (limited battery drain since it
                             # is a passive listening connection)
                             #
enable_light = false         # flood lights only available on some camera
                             # (limited battery drain since it
                             # is a passive listening connection)
                             #
enable_battery = false       # battery updates in `/status/battery_level`
                             #
enable_preview = false       # preview image in `/status/preview`
                             #
enable_floodlight = false    # preview image in `/status/floodlight_tasks`
                             #
battery_update = 2000        # Number of ms between `/status/battery_level` updates
                             #
preview_update = 2000        # Number of ms between `/status/preview` updates
                             #
floodlight_update = 2000     # Number of ms between `/status/floodlight_tasks` updates
```

#### MQTT Discovery

[MQTT Discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/mqtt/#mqtt-discovery)
is partially supported. Currently, discovery is opt-in and camera features
must be manually specified.

```toml
[cameras.mqtt]
  # <see above>
  [cameras.mqtt.discovery]
  topic = "homeassistant"
  features = ["floodlight"]
```

Available features are:

- `floodlight`: This adds a light control to home assistant
- `camera`: This adds a camera preview to home assistant. It is only updated
  every 0.5s and cannot be much more than that since it is updated over mqtt
  not over RTSP. Not every camera supports the snapshot command needed for
  this. In such cases there will be no `/status/preview` message.
- `led`: This adds a switch to chage the LED status light on/off to home
  assistant
- `ir`: This adds a selection switch to chage the IR light on/off/auto to home
  assistant
- `motion`: This adds a motion detection binary sensor to home assistant
- `reboot`: This adds a reboot button to home assistant
- `pt`: This adds a selection of buttons to control the pan and tilt of the
  camera
- `battery`: This adds a battery level sensor to home assistant
- `siren`: Adds a siren button to home assistant

### Extra Camera Settings

Listed below are extra camera settings:

```toml
[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
debug = false # Displays Debug XML messages from camera
enabled = true # Enable or Disable the camera
update_time = false # When camera connects, force the setting of the camera date/time to now. The default is false
print_format = "None"  # Type of format that logs are displayed in (None, Human, Xml). The default is None
```

- **Debug:** Will dump the various XMLs from the camera as they are recieved
and decrypted. Leave this off unless asked for it to fix an issue.

- **Enabled:** Useful if you want to remove a camera from rtsp without deleting
it from the config

- **update_time:** Used to FORCE an update on the camera time. Usually it checks
if it is needed but this
will force it regardless. (Mostly this was introduced to address a specific
ssue a user had)

- **print_format:** Used for adjusting printing of some values mostly, battery
messages

### Pause

To use the pause feature you will need to adjust your config file as such:

```toml
bind = "0.0.0.0"

[[cameras]]
name = "Camera01"
username = "admin"
password = "password"
uid = "ABCDEF0123456789"
  [cameras.pause]
  on_motion = true # Should pause when no motion
  on_client = true # Should pause when no rtsp client
  timeout = 2.1 # How long to wait after motion stops before pausing
```

Then start the rtsp server as usual:

```bash
./neolink rtsp --config=neolink.toml
```

### On-Demand Connections

To save battery and network bandwidth, Neolink automatically disconnects from cameras
when they are not being used.

Cameras connect **only when needed**:
- When an RTSP client connects to view the stream
- When an MQTT command is executed
- When motion detection is active

Cameras disconnect **immediately** when:
- All RTSP clients disconnect
- No active tasks require the camera connection

This happens automatically - no configuration is required. The camera relay connection
lifecycle is perfectly synchronized with RTSP client connections.

**Example**: When you connect VLC to view a camera stream, Neolink establishes the relay
connection. When you close VLC, Neolink immediately disconnects from the camera.

You can monitor this behavior in the logs:
```
[INFO] Permit acquired, connecting to camera relay
[INFO] RTSP client connected, establishing camera relay
[INFO] Camera relay established
[INFO] Client disconnected, stopping camera relay
[INFO] All permits dropped, disconnecting from camera relay
[INFO] Camera relay disconnected
```

You can make neolink stop active streams when there are no rtsp clients using

```toml
[cameras.pause]
  on_client = true # Should pause when no rtsp client
```

Once in the disconnected state. Neolink will stay disconnected until there is a
new requested activation such as a client connecting or an mqtt command

~Neolink will also wake up on push notifications from the camera. These are usually
sent by the camera on motion or PIR alarms. To disable this you can set
`push_notifications = false` in the `[[cameras]]` config~

[Google removed the apis we were using for push notifications]

### Docker

[Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/quantumentangledandy/neolink) builds are also
provided in multiple architectures. The latest tag tracks master while each
branch gets it's own tag.

```bash
docker pull quantumentangledandy/neolink

# Add `-e "RUST_LOG=debug"` to run with debug logs
#
# --network host is only needed if you require to connect
# via local broadcasts. If you can connect via any other
# method then normal bridge mode should work fine
# and you can ommit this option. Not all OSes support
# network=host, notably macos lacks this option.
docker run --network host --volume=$PWD/config.toml:/etc/neolink.toml quantumentangledandy/neolink
```

#### Environmental Variables

There are currently 2 environmental variables available as part of the container:

- `NEO_LINK_MODE`: defaults to `"rtsp"` if not set, other options are "mqtt" or "mqtt-rtsp".
- `NEO_LINK_PORT`: defaults to `8554`, set this to your required port value.

### Image

You can write an image from the stream to disk using:

```bash
neolink image --config=config.toml --file-path=filepath CameraName
```

Where filepath is the path to save the image to and CameraName is the name of
the camera from the config to save the image from.

File is always jpeg and the extension given in filepath will be added or changed
to reflect this.

Some cameras do not support the SNAP command that is used to generate the image
on the camera. If this is the case with your camera you can try the
`--use-stream` option which will instead create a jpeg by transcoding the video
stream.

### Battery Levels

You can get the battery level and status using

```bash
neolink battery --config=config.toml CameraName
```

This will produce an xml formatted battery status on stdout for processing

### PIR

You can control pir using

```bash
neolink pir --config=config.toml CameraName [on|off]
```

This will turn the PIR on or off

### Reboot

You can reboot a camera using

```bash
neolink reboot --config=config.toml CameraName
```

### Status LED

You can control the status LED using

```bash
neolink status-light --config=config.toml CameraName [on|off]
```

### Talk

You can talk over the camera using

```bash
neolink talk --config=config.toml --adpcm-file=data.adpc\
               --sample-rate=16000 --block-size=512 CameraName
```

Where the sounds is ADPCM encoded

or

```bash
neolink talk --config=config.toml --microphone  CameraName
```

Which uses the default microphone which depends on
[gstreamer](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/autodetect/autoaudiosrc.html?gi-language=c#autoaudiosrc-page)

### PTZ

You can control the PTZ using

```bash
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName control 32 [left|right|up|down|in|out]
```

Where 32 is the speed. Not all cameras support speed

Some cameras also support preset positions

```bash
# Print the list of preset positions
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName preset
# Move the camera to preset ID 0
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName preset 0
# Save the current position as preset ID 0 with name PresetName
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName assign 0 PresetName
```

To change the zoom level use the following:

```bash
# Zoom the camera to 2.5x
neolink ptz --config=config.toml CameraName zoom 2.5
```

With 1.0 being normal and 2.5 being 2.5x zoom

## License

Neolink is free software, released under the GNU Affero General Public License
v3.

This means that if you incorporate it into a piece of software available over
the network, you must offer that software's source code to your users.

## Donations

If you find this code helpful please consider supporting development.

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/G2G5HOYIZ)
